# Anastomotic-Leak-Prediction
Predict anastomotic leak in gastro-surgery patients.

Anastomotic leaks (AL) still represent one of the most important and dreaded complications in colorectal surgery. It is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates, frequent need of repeated surgical intervention and readmission as well as with prolonged hospitalization and decreased quality of life for the patient. The overall incidence of AL after colorectal surgery is reported around 1.6%-16%. Prediction and early recognition of AL is a challenging task due to the multitude of clinical presentations, which are often indistinguishable from the symptoms caused by the physiological inflammatory response after colorectal surgical procedures. In most cases, these signs and symptoms may vary from mild abdominal pain and fever to ileus, fulminant peritonitis, sepsis and death. Anastomotic leaks usually appear between days 5 to 8 after the surgery, but in some cases it may show a delayed presentation as late as the 13th postoperative day. It has been demonstrated that, regardless of the experience and training, the clinical assessment of the surgeon alone is inadequate in identifying patients at high risk for AL and for early diagnosis of leakages.

Prevention and early diagnosis of AL is paramount for improving both short- and long-term morbidity and mortality. In this study, we aimed to develop and validate a risk score to predict an individual’s risk of anastomotic leak and help surgeons to establish an accurate and timely diagnosis of AL after colorectal surgery.

The present study enrolled 837 patients who underwent laparoscopic resection without a diverting stoma. The study was conducted using data between 2018 and 2019 from the surgery department at Sheba Medical Center. Data was extracted from patients' electronic medical records using MilagroAI system platform. The system analyzes all relevant data from the electronic medical record, monitors and other sources both structured and unstructured data.
